And, so I'm gonna collapse all
of the code in the project.
We're gonna go into Apps, and
then we're gonna go into dashboard-e2e,
so your dashboard.
So if you have an app, then NS will
generate and end to end project right next
to it, because they are totally
separate applications.
And then within the source of this,
you have four main folders,
Fixtures, Integration,
Plugins, and Support.
And within the fixtures,
this is pretty simple,
that we have just a JSON file.
So in this case, it's widgets,
and I just have some mock data.
So I think it's really interesting that
when you talk about building production
applications, how often this concept
of mocking out your endpoints and
mocking out your data comes up.
So even in end-to-end test I'm
creating a fixture for my test data.
And then, within the integration folder,
this is where I'm putting my test.
So I'm gonna open this up, but
I'm gonna talk about something else
before we get into this piece.
And that is, within our support,
I've created two new folders and
because this would all be in
one folder if you generate it.
But I separate these out is I have
this file called widgets.po.ts,
and so what po stands for
is a page object.
So this is a pattern I believe that Martin
Fowler is maybe one of the first people to
write about it.
But one of the big problems that
you have in index testing is that
the templates that you're testing change,
is that you move a button over here,
remove a field over here, etc.
And, so
what you're doing with a page object.
So I think of this a lot
of times is like a facade.
Is that you're obstructing
those details of interacting
with the application from
the rest of your test.
And so from here,
in terms of the test itself,
what I can say is getWidgetsList.
And so, in the code,
I'm certain this is in here somewhere,
I'm just gonna get Widgets list and
I may not,
let's go with get widget,
so getWidgets here.
So this one, getWidgets, and
I'm getting the list, and
then I'm getting the list item.
Well, when I need to call this over here,
then I'm saying, getWidgets.
So in respect,
I don't have to worry about under the hood
how I'm interacting with my template.
I'm just saying,
should list all the widgets, but
all of the implementations that low
level details is been obstructed out,
and it's handled here
within the page object.
So the page object surfaces an API for
you to query the,
to say I just want you to do this thing.
And it's going to do it without having
to worry about the underlying details.
What this also allows you to
do is it allows you to share
this functionality across multiple test.
And, so what this does is,
you're no longer having to write this
selector over and over and over.
You can now re-use it across your test.
And so you'll notice here that these
are all action kind of like verb thing.
So it has this kind of verb-noun format,
it's like, get this.
So get the delete button,
select the widget, clear the form.
And remember, I mentioned that it
handles some of the sequencing.
And, so I think of this is in a way, kind
of like an opportunity to write macros.
So for instance, if I wanted to fill
the form out with a new widget.
I'm able to stack these commands
into a single essentially
function that I can call and
say complete new widget form,
create widget, update widget, etc.
And, so this allows me to extract
out the low level details for
this spec, that from here,
I'm saying, do this thing.
And then, I can write my assertion on it.
And, so
you'll notice here that also now my tests
are becoming very small,
very specific in that,
Underlying within my test itself,
it typically exists in this format.
It should do so,
I'm describing what I wanna do, and
then I have a single command.
One, or two commands,
that is performing the actions in
the test itself and
then performing an assertion.
So here, selected which an item
clear the form assertion.
So typically, it's one or two commands and
then my assertion underneath of that.
Now, what you'll see here as well,
that within this,
I have a before block, and
I'm doing a couple things.
So one thing that I'm doing is I'm
doing site.fixture widgets, and
I'm taking that JSON, and
I'm assigning it to a local property here.
The reason why I'm doing that is because
when you have the mock data locally,
and then within the application
you can compare those together.
And, so this is how you can
essentially write your assertions.
So what I'll do here is,
when I call get widgets because I
have two copies of the data is,
I should say getWidgets should have
a length of the widgets' link.
So I'm now comparing the UI
against the sample data or
the mock data that I've
loaded into my application.
And, so now even if you look
here I have in my page object,
I predefined some additional
state that I'm loading in.
And, so
this is why when you're running into and
test is that you have your application
state or your presentation state and
then have like a local version of that
you can start to compare against.
And, so this is why I'm calling fixture
then, and I'm building that up.
And, so this is why in somebody's case
that you'll see, So,
I wanna delete the updateMockWidget.
So, I'm saying go find this in
the list and delete it, and then,
what I'm doing is I'm saying,
this should no longer exist in the list.
And, so that is what's happening there.
Now, one other thing
I'd like to point out,
is that, if we go to, our code here,
this is in the page object.
Is that I'm calling cy.create entity,
update entity, delete entity.
And this is kind of interesting,
because this looks just like cy.get.
And, so cy.get is a built-in
command that allows you
too as you can imagine,
get something from the DOM.
And, so we're saying get the form save
button and then issue this action on it.
So, cy.get, but create entity,
update entity, and delete entity,
they are totally custom and so
for me, this is mind-boggling.
Is that whereas I think a page
object is like a facade.
Cypress commands or custom commands
is like a shared common service.
And, so if I were to do like
an item's feature and test this,
I would still use cy.updateEntity.
Where did this come from?
Well, thank you for asking that.
If you go into your commands folder,
and you click here,
that you have the ability
to add custom commands that
are now available to the rest
of your application.
And, so this is incredibly convenient.
And, so what I did in this case for
me to mock out the data and
mock out the endpoints,
because this is all happening
automatically is that,
I'm saying I wanna create
a command called load data, and
I just pass in an array of
the models that I want to load,
which is then calling get entities,
and I'm starting the server.
So you start basically, you're signaling
to Cypress like start the server, and
then set up this mock route.
And, so this is a way for
me when I say in this command when
I'm saying load data widgets.
But if I had like items, so
let's say I needed to load more than
one is I could just go items like this.
It's gonna loop over, and
it's automatically going to set
those routes up, but,
this is done in such a way.
So remember, talking about abstracting
complexity that I can use this over and
over and over.
Is that I can say, load data, and
then I can because it's restful,
I know what the URL is gonna
look like every single time,
it's the base URL plus the model.
And, so I'm able to not only
set up the server, but more so
this mock route to grab this end.
Not only that is, I'm able to say
set up this mock route in return,
dynamically return this fixture.
And, so I'm passing in this case widgets.
And, so it's saying when
you get to the base URL for
/widgets, return the widgets
fixture in its place.
And I'm able to do the same thing for
post, put, and delete.
And so very, very quickly I should
have a total standalone module almost
like how to mark out
quickly APIs in Cypress.
I was able to do this in I don't know,
10, 15 lines of code.
Maybe a little more, maybe 20, and
what's interesting here is
that when you add an entity.
So let's say, I have an entity and
I want to add it into my list is that,
I have an additional method here at
entity that I'm saying give me all
of the entities, but
then I want to return those entities.
In addition,
I want to add my mock entity on top of it.
And, so I'm just doing some
very simple data manipulation.
But this allows me when I run
my test to essentially simulate
all of the interactions that
I have within my normal rest,
server communication, back and forth.
And, so Cypress commands if
you think of page objects
as facades commands are like
your high level services
that you can then share across
your various spec files.
Now, the lesson that I
wanna show you is that
The one last thing that you have to do and
this is very,
very easy is that you
have to instrument your
application to be what I
would say cipher's friendly.
And, so what I do here is,
I will go through and
as I'm developing this is
that I use this data-cy.
And, so I've seen data, test ID.
There's a couple variations of this, but
this is what's recommended by Cypress and
I give it a very specific name.
And, so I'm not even using,
like CSS elements,
whatever it is that, I'm able to go in.
And within the page object,
I'm able to essentially grab this,
like this widgets list, and
it's [SOUND] instantaneous.
There's no like maybe this is something
else or whatever because I've seen it.
And because your selectors are brittle,
it falls apart.
So in the HTML itself,
you just go through, and
this is the only thing
that you have to do, so
setting this up is very,
very non-invasive.
And I would say that engineers,
if all they did, was went through and
put test IDs on their DOM,
that would be a huge step forward.
And, so you'll see here that I'm also
setting up some additional test IDs,
but they're dynamic, and
so this is another thing.
So instead of going and saying I wanna
grab the third item in the list and
doing this weird like array like zero or
one and
trying to basically guess on the index.
What I'm doing is when I loop
over this is because I know
the ID of the widget,
I'm baking this into the selector.
And when I'm looking for that, because
I'm using essentially that same ID,
then I can say go find me this
particular element based on the ID,
versus instead of like having to count and
find it or iterate over it.
It's just is like laser sharp, like, go
and find me the widget that has this ID.
And, so if we go back into our
page object, you'll see here,
getWidget item while I'm
passing the widget in.
And then, I'm dynamically using a string
literal, returning that specific thing.
And, so you'll never have to guess and
count what the number is in the list and
say well, if there's four, and
I just added one now there's five, and
I got to guess.
I've seen a lot of that mental
assumption in references happening and
this is how it praise.
And, so the first step Is instrument,
your templates in a way that
you can refer to it by name,
in this case by ID, and
look it up immediately.
And what this allows you to
do now is you essentially,
you decorate your DOM with their IDs then,
What I do in the process for
this is I first decorate the DOM,
then I go and write my page object.
And, so I'm saying these are the things
that I need to get and then from there
within my spec, I describe all the
interactions that I want and then wire up.
I page ups or commands,
assertions, and you're good to go.